# Fee-less Transactions (and changes to emission)

In Qubic, normal on-chain activity is completely fee-less, with the only on-chain fees being those associated with Smart Contracts. Transitioning Monero to a fee-less transaction system may be a viable option after this upgrade, as the overall cost of creating a transaction in this system becomes much less significant. Changing to this system would necessitate a modification to emission, as the overall percentage of value given to nodes decreases over time, which reduces the capability of honest participants to compete against malicious nodes.

The change proposed in this section would 1. remove all transaction fees in the network, and 2. change the "tail emission" from a constant 157,680 XMR added per year to a constant annual percentage yield, likely set no lower than 1% and no higher than 4%. The raw emission would increase with each epoch, but following such that it would increase by the given "emission percentage".

There are a number of arguments both for and against this proposed change. A common opposition is that the removal of all transaction "penalty" increases the chance for "spamming" behavior. Another point is that the current valuation of Monero is made under the presumption that the currency is, while technically infinite in supply, still linearly capped in emission rate; changing to a percentage model would "inflate" the currency at a much more rapid rate (even a small APY like 1% would still result in the supply doubling once every ~70 years, with a higher APY like 4% resulting in the supply doubling once every ~18 years).

The main argument for this change is that it would create strong incentives for spending, while reducing the incentive for "hoarding" behavior. Using Monero for spending is arguably its main use case, so removing as many barriers to doing so would make sense. It should also be noted that transaction fees, while currently considered to be low by many, will likely increase naturally in order to "make up" for the amount lost from emission decay. Transaction fees are a determinant factor in both driving users away from those with too high of fees and towards currencies with little to none. Removing transaction fees would increase the amount of Monero users, which would also improve the privacy of users.

With all of this said, much of the economic implications for different emission models, as well as how the burden of network cost is split between holders, users, and infrastructure, needs further research, and should be looked into. As this is mostly out of scope for the needs of this paper, that work will be left to future endeavors.