# "Threadable" Transactions

The mixture of irreversibility and untraceability creates a strong malincentive for Monero receivers to commit fraud and other undesirable behavior. This puts senders at an elevated risk in a transaction, as whatever they receive is more likely to be fraudulent than the payment they send. Furthermore, the inability to properly "chargeback" incorrect or mistaken transactions is a strong disadvantage when comparing cryptocurrencies to contemporary currencies. This is a significant blocking factor for a number of potential users.

Unfortunately, implementing a full "mediation" system (similar to the Haveno protocol) within the currency would add significant complexity, only to result in a sub-par solution, as the system would inherently be reliant on "oracles" to deliver accurate real world info for arbitration. Additionally, this process would circumvent local jurisdiction on fraud, which may be undesirable.

The solution proposed is a new category of optionally traceable currency, referred to as "threadable". This currency type would allow for spenders to trace the coinbase movement of the relevant spend if an issue arises before a "timeout" deadline. The exact timeout number is up for debate, but I recommend somewhere from 30-90 days. The timeout could also be variable, if desired, though this would create usability challenges, similar to Monero's old "lockout" functionality.

Threadable currency can be "minted" at the time of a transaction by the sender. Notably, wallets can delineate between threadable and non-threadable currency, and each wallet has a special subaddress that is only used for threadable currency (default addresses/subaddresses will only accept non-threadable currency). This creates a barrier to accidentally sending the wrong type of currency.

In a nominal threadable transaction, the transaction is entirely private. Every time a threadable coinbase is transacted, its "timeout" is reset. Once the timeout period has passed, the threadable coinbase becomes a normal coinbase, and can be traded normally.

If a sender decides that the transaction is problematic within the timeout period, they can submit a special request to the blockchain that demands for any transaction data for the coinbase be privately sent to the sender. The coinbase is frozen until the receiver agrees.

If the coinbase has been sent to another address, that address too is demanded in the same way. This is done recursively for all addresses that possess the coinbase.

The blockchain is "blind" to any external mediation process that occurs with regard to the traced transaction. The trace can be stopped either by the original sender or by both the sender and receiver. In the case of the sender closing it, they will pay a small fee, as this implies that the sender was incorrect in the trace. If it is closed by both, the recipient pays the fee, as this implies that they were the one in the wrong. Note that this fee is not intended as a direct or full penalty for poor conduct, and should only be high enough to mitigate abuse of the feature and undue stress on the network. The penalty is not intended as a replacement or supplement for jurisdictional legal proceedings. Also note that this system does not directly handle chargebacks. This is intentional, as chargebacks should be handled by the parties themselves, instead of the network. This allows for better jurisdictional compliance and for better flexibility for the parties involved.

There are a number of potential negative effects of this system. It increases the complexity of the currency, which could result in users making improper decisions under the presumption of privacy or of the opposite. Its existence could also lead to downstream effects in restricted jurisdictions, where private transactions are outright banned. In the case that a large proportion of transactions are made utilizing this feature, the overall anonymity set of the network could be significantly exposed. While the fee decreases the effectiveness of spam attacks, a "black marble" attack would become more effective. There are also some neutral effects, such as an arbitrage opportunity for users willing to buy Threadable currency and wait for it to timeout to be traded privately.

In my opinion, these tradeoffs are worth the potential UX improvements of this feature; this can allow a potentially wronged party to fully trace their transactions (preventing potential on-chain "mixers" from obfuscating its location) without the party needing to obtain the view key of their wallet and of unassuming recipients, or to coordinate the obtaining of all individual transaction view keys involved. In addition, it does this with no risk of unwanted 3rd parties viewing the information without the consent of the sender and recipient, and with minimal risk to the anonymity of non-Threadable transactions. Instead of assuming that users won't want or need transaction traceability, it minimizes the amount of traceability only to what is required.