# Mining/Node Selection

At the beginning of each epoch, the hash of the tallest block from each quorum member is XOR'd against each other in order to generate a universal random "genesis" code. This code, along with the public key for the respective node's identifier, is hashed in the "genesis block" of the respective node's blockchain. This ensures both that the "work" on the blockchain is not done in advance of the epoch, and that the work belongs to the correct node (which also allows for the "seniority coefficient" to be properly calculated).

The individual blockchains mine on a static-difficulty setting. This setting should be small enough that small participants on low-end consumer hardware can still mine a block at a minimum of once per 3 hours, but not small enough that re-orgs are common or that the size of individual blockchains become cumbersome. The exact difficulty setting should be dynamically updated at the beginning of each epoch.

Miners can choose which nodes they want to mine to, depending on a number of factors that the miner cares about. While the primary factor will likely be earnings and how the earnings are paid out (as nodes are free to determine the payout method, this allows for both normal payout systems like PPLNS, as well as for abnormal payout systems, such as a "lottery" style payout like that implemented by XMRvsBEAST), other factors such as security, node privacy, and governance beliefs can influence their choice of node. Nodes can also run "initiatives" on their chains, where nodes propose a question or questions to miners, and mined blocks can contain a "ballot" object that shows the voting desires of the block's miner.

The role of miners in this system changes from that of directly choosing blocks and making consensus decisions to that of directly choosing representatives that will then choose blocks and make consensus decisions. This is analogous to the transition of a traditional government from a direct democracy to a democratic republic. Hence why this upgrade is referred to as "Republic".