# Consensus Overview

The Monero Republic upgrade uses a "quorum" style consensus mechanism, where a "quorum" of participant nodes are selected to make decisions. The size of the quorum in this paper is preliminarily chosen to be 1000, but this number is little more than an educated guess as to the best number. Whichever number is chosen must not be too low so as to centralize the network, but must also not be too high so as to cause network strain or to increase the risk of consensus failure. In addition to the quorum size, a further 1/6th of nodes are selected as "backups", that can take the place of the selected nodes in the case of an emergency. Quorum members are selected at the end of an epoch via a provable "suitability" score. This score is determined by the length of the node's private temporary chain multiplied by the "seniority coefficient". The "seniority coefficient" is a float c>=1 that is increased by long-term participation in the network. It grows slowly with time, and decreases slightly faster if participation halts. Participants in the "backup" section gain seniority faster than those who are in the quorum, which is meant to provide a small incentive for nodes in this section to remain active in case they are needed.

Emissions are split evenly among all valid quorum participants at the end of the epoch. This is only paid out after the chain proof has been completed, to ensure that nodes do not attempt to avoid working on this calculation. As emissions are paid directly to nodes, it is the responsibility of nodes to pay their miners fairly. In the standard node implementation, there will be both a setting for sending all mining rewards to the node (should only be used for nodes that do all of their own mining), and for one that takes a set percentage from the reward and gives the rest to the miners responsible for mined blocks.

The network reaches a "consensus" whenever 2/3rds of the quorum agrees on the state of the temporal blockchain. Once this agreement is reached, the transaction is final. This means that there is instant finality on the chain. As emissions are no longer tied to blocks, the block creation rate is rapid. In order to prevent issues with timing, empty blocks are not allowed. Transactions are propagated throughout the network, checked for validity, and if they are valid, are immediately added to the newest block. Once the block reaches the limit of the block size (which is still determined dynamically in the same manner as before, though with alterations to match the change in timing) or a given "timeout" condition is reached, the block is submitted for consensus, and once consensus is reached, it is finalized. If a node has recently received a transaction but it is not added into the consensus in time, it will be postponed to the next block.