
# Intro

At the time of writing, Monero is the target of a 51% attack by a rival chain (src). This attack, while yet to be successful, has shown that Nakamura consensus is not enough to prevent an attack. It also shows that so-called "economic incentives" are insufficient against attackers with non-economic goals; these are not considered within the context of Nakamura consensus. Simply put, if an attacker has the capability to perform an attack against Monero, and they are not profit-driven, there is little that the current consensus model can do to prevent it.

Outside of this current attack, there are other issues with Nakamura consensus. While the longest chain generally works as an analog for the collective will of users, it is utterly blind to their real-world intentions and usage. There are many participant behaviors that are clearly incompatible with the goals of the collective (ie "selfish" mining attacks, needlessly empty or censored blocks) that are entirely "kosher" within the bounds of Nakamura consensus. A sensible consensus model needs to have the goals of the network embedded within itself, rather than projected upon it in such a way that they could be removed at a moment's notice.

Additionally, the emission model of traditional Nakamura consensus creates "malincentives", or incentives for bad behavior. A number of common Nakamura malincentives are either eliminated, as in the case of ASIC mining, or significantly mitigated, as in the case of emission decay, in contemporary Monero. However, Monero is not entirely immune of Nakamura-derived malincentive.

For example, a node of some kind is required to mine, but running a node is slow, cumbersome, and in some cases an unexpected expense for miners, which creates a malincentive for miners to join pools and use their nodes, which inherently centralize the network. As of block 3475761, 638 of the previous 1000 blocks were confirmed to be mined by 3 node operators, with a significant portion of 198 "unknown" blocks likely mined by Qubic. A sensible consensus model needs to proactively remove all potential areas for centralization.

The node malincentives derived from Nakamura consensus run deeper than mere miner inconvenience and centralization risks. Running a node yields no rewards from emissions nor transaction fees, despite nodes being a required part of the Monero network. The blatant discrepancy between the real value of nodes and the assigned value of nodes has resulted in severe malincentives, as the ones willing to run nodes are either doing so out of charity, out of malice, or, in unfortunate cases, out of coercion or theft of resource. It also inherently puts a damper on the scalability of the network, as it removes any incentive for a node runner to upgrade their system to improve the speed of the network. A sensible consensus model should not only incentivize participants to "secure" the network, but should also encourage scalability, and should be proactive in providing fair value to the participants of the network.

This proposed upgrade to Monero, nicknamed "Republic", would transition the network from the current consensus model of miners validating blocks directly and sending them to unpaid nodes, to a consensus where miners instead validate nodes in a quorum, who then, upon reaching a consensus, will validate transactions. Miners will be able to choose which node to mine for, with payment method being determined entirely by their node. Miners can influence the decisions of the nodes through "agenda mining", where the mining software will automatically adjust its mining target to whatever node best fits the miner's "agenda", or goals. Nodes in the quorum reach finality upon 2/3rds consensus. Nodes are routinely, but semi-randomly, "reselected". The blockchain is split into two parts, a "temporal" chain that exists entirely within the memory of a node, and a "permanent" chain proof, which exists on disk. When a "reselection" occurs, the temporal chain is "rolled up" into the "permanent" chain proof, and the temporal chain is reset. This allows for an incredibly small permanent blockchain size

blockchain size and efficient verification of transactions, while also limiting the non-trivial work of generating a proof to only limited times, with said work being distributed across all network nodes. Once implemented, the Monero network will be more scalable, with an incentive structure more aligned with that of improving infrastructure and network performance, while minimizing all effects on decentralization and privacy.